We cleaned the columns, we defined the column names but we have to go a little bit deeper to really clean
all the data
we have to clean.
So in the Age-Group column, we see that we have that 9th of
May and that 14th of October
and if you look at the Age-Group logic, then this probably happened because the 5 was turned into May
for the fifth month and the 10 was turned into October as the tenth month.
Now before we work on that, we have to make sure that this is a problem that happened in the input
data and not something that happened in Power BI desktop,
so let's switch to the source files again and see what was stated there.
So here I am in the initial source files folder and let's now open one of the csv files. I'll open the
files with a text editor to make sure that it's not xl that caused kind of an error right here.
So let's right-click it and open it with the notepad and we immediately see that the error is really
caused by the source file,
so this is good to know
and this allows us now to change that data manually in Power BI desktop,
so let's go back to our project and see how we can change that.
So what we have to do right here is we have to replace something, right, because that's the easiest way
to do that.
So let's find the replace function in the home ribbon and in the transform area,
we have that replace values button.
Let's click that
and we see that we can now define the value that we want to find and the value that we want to replace
that value with,
so in our case that would be 9th May
and this should be replaced by 5 to 10,
so we turned that May into five and turn it around to make the range correct.
So we did that and can press OK now and we see that this change was applied to the entire column which
is the great thing about working with data like that.
So this was the first replacement, for the second replacement,
we will do almost the same thing but with one little change that makes our lives a little bit easier.
If you simply select the value that you want to change,
so in that case, the 14th October and then go to replace value in the home ribbon, then you see that
Power BI desktop automatically identified the value defined because you selected that value before.
Now we can simply type 10 to 14 and press OK
and now we see that we also corrected that wrong source data.
So this looks good, right and now I think it's time to have a look at the actual data format because at the
moment as we already said, all the data we see right here is formatted as text and I see some columns
where this is not true.
Now let's change that in the next video.